Hibernate 

Hibernate is an open-source Object-relational mapper solution in Java. Hibernate is a framework in Java which comes with an abstraction layer and handles the implementations internally. The implementations include tasks like writing a query for CRUD operations or establishing a connection with the databases, etc.

A framework is basically a software that provides abstraction on multiple technologies like JDBC, servlet, etc.

Hibernate develops persistence logic, which stores and processes the data for longer use. It is lightweight and an ORM tool.

ORM Tool
It is a technique that maps the object stored in the database. An ORM tool simplifies data creation, manipulation, and access. It internally uses the Java API to interact with the databases.

Need For Hibernate Framework : Hibernate eliminates the shortcomings of other technologies like JDBC. Features of Hibernate are given below : 
Hibernate overcomes the database dependency faced in the JDBC.
Changing of the databases cost a lot working on JDBC, hibernate overcomes this problem with flying colors.
Code portability is not an option while working on JDBC, which is handled by hibernate easily.
Hibernate strengthens/overcomes the object level relationship.
It overcomes the exception-handling part which is mandatory while working on JDBC.
It reduces the length of code with increased readability.

Functionalities Supported By Hibernate 
Hibernate uses Hibernate Query Language which makes it database independent.
It supports auto DDL operations.
Hibernate has Auto Primary Key Generation support.
It supports Cache memory.
Exception handling is not mandatory for hibernate.

Advantages Of Hibernate In Java
Lightweight and open-source – Being lightweight and open-source makes it accessible and efficient.
Increased performance – Using cache memory helps in fast performance.
Database Independence – Being database-independent gives it the ability to work with different databases.
Auto DDL Operations – automatic table creation saves us from manually creating tables.
It takes care of mapping Java classes databases using XML files without writing any code.
We can directly store and retrieve data directly from the database using simple APIs.
It does not require any application server to operate.
Minimizes database access with smart fetching strategies.
It provides simple querying of data.

Machine learning

Machine learning is a powerful technique which learns from examples and experience. It is a type of Artificial Intelligence that allows software applications to learn from the data and become more accurate in predicting outcomes, without human intervention or without being explicitly programmed. So instead of you writing the entire code, you just have to feed the data and the algorithm will build the logic based on your data

How Machine learning Implemented
Machine Learning algorithm is an evolution of the regular algorithm. It makes your programs “smarter”, by allowing them to automatically learn from the provided data. The algorithm is mainly divided into two phases: Training and Testing

Algorithms is categorized into three types:

Supervised Learning: This is a training process, where you can consider learning guided by a teacher. This is a process of an algorithm learning from the training dataset. It generates a mapping function between an input variable and output variable. Once the model is trained, it can start making predictions/ decisions when new data is given to it. Few algorithms that fall into supervised learning are – Linear regression, logistic regression, decision tree, etc.

Unsupervised Learning: This is a process where a model is trained using a piece of information which is not labeled. This process can be used to cluster the input data in classes on the basis of their statistical properties. It is commonly called a clustering analysis which means the grouping of objects based on the information found in the data, describing the objects or their relationship. Here, the goal is that objects in one group should be similar to each other but different from the objects in another group. Few algorithms that fall into unsupervised learning include K-means clustering, Hierarchical clustering, etc.

Reinforcement Learning: Reinforcement learning follows the concept of hit and trial. It is learning by interacting with space or an environment. An RL agent learns from the consequences of its actions, rather than from being taught explicitly. It is the ability of an agent to interact with the environment and find out what is the best outcome.

Libraries for Implementing Machine Learning in Java : To implement Machine learning, there are various open-source third-party libraries available in Java are listed below :

1. ADAMS: It stands for Advanced Data Mining and Machine Learning Systems. It is a flexible workflow engine which aims to build quick and maintain data-driven, perform retrieval, processing, mining and visualization of data. ADAMS uses a tree -like structure and follows a philosphy of less is “more”. It provides some features such as:

Machine Learning/ data mining
Data processing
Streaming
Databases
visualization,
Scripting
Documentation, etc

2. JavaML:  It is a collection of machine learning algorithms where it has a common interface for each type of algorithm. It has well good documentation with clear interfaces. You can also gather plenty of codes and tutorials aimed for software engineers or programmers. Some of its features are:

Data Manipulation
Clustering
Classification
Databases
Feature Selection
Documentation, etc

3. Mahaut: Apache Mahaut is a distributed framework which provides implementations of machine algorithms for the Apache Hadoop platform. It consists of various components for easy use and aimed at mathematicians, statisticians, data analysts, data scientist or anyone from the analytic professional. It is majorly focussed on:

Clustering
Classification
recommendation systems
Scalable performant Machine learning apps

4. Deeplearning4j: Deeplearning4j, as the name suggests us written in Java and is compatible with Java Virtual Machine language, such as Kotlin, Scala etc. It is an open-source distributed deep learning library which has an advantage of the latest distributed computing frameworks such as Apache Spark and Hadoop. Some of its features are:

Commercial-grade and open-source
Brings AI to business environments
Detailed API doc
Sample projects in multiple languages
Integrated with Hadoop and Apache Spark

5. WEKA: Weka is a free, easy and open-source machine learning library for Java. Its name is inspired by a flightless bird found on the islands of New Zealand. Weka is a collection of ML algorithms and it also supports deep learning. It is majorly focused on:

Data mining
Tools for Data preparation
Classification
Regression
Clustering
Visualization, etc



